it's going to take you now to Geneva
where the UN Human Rights Council is
about to be briefed on the un's first
in-depth investigation into events in
Gaza the occupied West Bank and Israel
since October the 7th this is Navi P
speaking let's listen in uh in
remembrance of all the victims who lost
their lives and the survivors who have
suffered
injuries in both Israel and Palestine
uh so let me greet your excellencies
with a good morning and and to begin by
saying that in the eight months since
the 7th of October tens of thousands of
children women and men have been killed
and injured Palestinians Israelis and
citizens of other states thousands of
Palestinians have been detained and are
being held in communicado
and 120 Israeli hostages are still being
held in Gaza the enormity of this
tragedy overwhelms us and we are deeply
disturbed by the immense human suffering
we come to this Council today to present
our report the mission of this Council
as you know is to promote and protect
human rights and that remains more
important now than ever before on the
7th
October attack in Israel a and Israel's
subsequent military operation in Gaza
have not occurred in a vacuum they were
preceded by Decades of violence and
retribution dispossession unlawful
occupation and denial of the
Palestinians right to
self-determination now since 7th October
our commission has carried out two
parallel investigations first into
attacks by Hamas and other Palestinian
groups in Israel on 7th and 8th October
and second into Israeli military
operations and attacks in Gaza between
7th October and 31st
December the findings of these
investigations are summarized in the
report presented to you
today uh but they are detailed in two
conference room papers so as you are
aware uh the report we delivering is
limited by uh word numbers to
10,700 and this is violations of such a
vast scale and ongoing that we devis
this method of putting in all the
details in the two conference papers so
I do encourage you to read this short
report in conjunction with those two
long conference papers these reports
however do not even begin to describe
all the crimes and all the atrocities of
the last eight months and focus on some
and so we are going to be focused on
some of the most egregious events and
incidents we will be reporting on
additional findings and a followup after
31st December to the general assembly as
mandated by you in October
international
law has strict and clear regulations on
the conduct of War and the conduct of
self-defense a fundamental principle of
international law which underscored our
findings is that unlawful action by one
party to an armed conflict does not
justify unlawful action by another party
Israel has a right to protect its
citizens from Violence by Palestinian
armed groups but in doing so it must
comply with international law Hamas and
the Palestinian armed group must also
comply with international
law in relation to Israel's military
operations and attacks in Gaza from 7th
October we
conclude that Israeli authorities are
responsible for war crimes crimes
against human ity and violations of
international
humanitarian and human rights law
including
extermination intentionally directing
attacks against civilians and civilian
objects murder or willful killing using
starvation as a method of War forcible
transfer gender persecution targeting
Palestinian men and boys sexual and
gender-based violence amounting to
torture and cruel or inhuman
treatment Israel's total Siege of the
Gaza Strip has weaponized the provision
of life sustaining Necessities for
strategic and political gains including
through cutting off supplies of water
food electricity Fuel and other
essential supplies including
humanitarian
assistance it constitutes Collective
punishment disproportionately impacting
pregnant women and persons with
disabilities and is causing grave harm
to children including starvation related
deaths we found that the immense numbers
of Civilian casualties in Gaza and
widespread destruction of Civilian
objects and infrastructure were the
inevitable result of an intentional
strategy to cause maximum damage
disregarding the legal obligations of
Distinction proportionality and adequate
precautions Israel also forcibly
transferred almost the entire population
into small
enclosures that are unsafe and
uninhabitable the deliberate use of
heavy weapons with large destructive
capacity in densely populated areas
constitutes an intentional and direct
attack on the civilian population
although Israeli officials have
repeatedly stated that their operations
in Gaza are intended to destroy Hamas
and to release hostages yet neither of
these aims has been largely achieved at
the expense of thousands of lives we
found that Israeli forces committed
sexual and gender-based violence with
the intent to humiliate and further
subordinate the Palestinian Community
Palestinian women were targeted and
subjected to sexual violence and
harassment online and in person men and
boys experienced specific persecutory
Acts including sexual and gender-based
violence amounting to torture and
inhuman and cruel treatment the
commission
concluded that specific forms of sexual
and gender-based violence constitute
part of Israeli Security Forces
operating
procedures
excellencies the situation in the Gaza
Strip has overshadowed that in the West
Bank where Palestinian fatalities
recorded since 7th October have exceeded
did any other recorded
period this is linked to increasingly
militarized Israeli operations a trend
which we highlighted in our report to
the general assembly last year as well
as a surge in violent settler attacks on
Palestinian communities often assisted
or condoned by Israeli
forces the blatant disregard for
international law across the entire
occupied Palestinian territory has
disproportionately impacted Palestinian
children in Gaza Israeli security forces
have killed and maimed tens of thousands
of children and thousands more likely
remain under the rubble Israeli attacks
have also severely impacted
infrastructure essential for the
well-being of children
including hospitals schools and basic
services excellencies in relation to the
attack of 7th October 2023 in
Israel the commission found that Hamas
and other Palestinian armed groups are
responsible for the war crimes of
intentionally directing attacks against
civilians of murder or willful killing
to torture inhuman or cruel
treatment destroying or seizing the
property of an adversary and outrages
upon personal dignity and taking
hostages members of Hamas members of
Palestinian armed groups and some
Palestinian civilians deliberately
killed injured tortured took hostages
including children and committed sexual
and gender-based violence against
civilians and members of the Israeli
Security Forces some of whom were hored
in
combat children were killed injured and
physically and emotionally mistreated
and instrumentalized by attackers for
propaganda purposes the commission
identified patterns indicative of sexual
violence and concluded that these were
not isolated but perpetrated in in
similar ways in several locations by
Palestinian perpetrators primarily
against Israeli women I must note that
the exploitation of sexual violence in
Conflict by all parties for political
propaganda risks diverting attention
from the experience and from the needs
of the survivors as well as further
fueling longstanding hostility
Excellency the security Council passed a
resolution last week calling for an
immediate full and complete ceasefire
the commission reiterates that call and
calls for a complete secession of
hostilities we call for the immediate
and for the full end of the siege for
the release of all detainees including
all of the Israeli hostages and for
Palestinian armed groups to stop the
indiscriminate firing of rockets into
Israel the commission reminds all
parties that they must adhere fully to
International humanitarian law and
international human rights law in
protecting civilians and civilian
objects the attacks against un agencies
and humanitarian actors must
stop this commission will continue its
investigations into all crimes under
international law with the aim of
achieving Justice and accountability the
commission requested Israel to ensure
the commission's immediate access to the
Gaza Strip in order to investigate and
preserve evidence and we asked for this
in compliance with the order issued by
the international court of justice on
the 24th May specifically ordering
access to this
commission Israel has has ignored the
request that we have submitted to
them the commission welcomes and is
cooperating with accountability
processes in the international court of
justice and in the in the international
criminal court it calls on all states to
support those processes in every
possible way the commission welcomes a
listing of all parties to conflict in
the
2020 2023 secretary General's report on
children and armed conflict for
committing grave child rights violations
in the occupied Palestinian territory
and Israel we call on the listed parties
to immediately end all the grave
violations against children and in
cooperation with the UN adopt time bound
commitment to end and prevent grave
violations against
children in conclusion our world World
faces the biggest threat of impunity for
violations of international law unless
perpetrators are held to account and
Justice is delivered for all victims the
protection and promotion of Human Rights
remains a Paramount
obligation of all member states thank
you Mr
President I thank you Miss Mrs Navi P
chairwoman of the SOI on occupied
Palestinian territories is J Alm and in
Israel for presenting the report of your
commission today before the
council make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer